Project Accelerated Analytics on IOT devices.

With massive expansion of IOT devices there will be a lot of data moving around. Correspondingly, there will be the need
to analyze and process all of this data.

Aim of this project is as follows:

1. Analyze the operations and data movement in common IOT devices.
2. Analyze the computation demands of those operations.
3. Potentially propose interesting hardware to accelerate data analytics.

What Are IoT Devices?
An IoT device is a piece of hardware with a sensor that transmits data from one place to another over the Internet.
Types of IoT devices include wireless sensors, software, actuators, and computer devices. They can be imbedded into
mobile devices, industrial equipment, environmental sensors, medical devices, and more. Connected IoT devices, which
convey usage and other data, can potentially provide insights that lead companies to cost reductions, efficiency gains,
and new business opportunities.

General questions:

At which point do we analyze things? At the device? At the cloud?

Where would I find the following info:

What kind of data IOT devices collect?

Current Stage:

Ways to classify:
Classify by physics -> data types -> operations
Classify by use (Medical, Production, Fitness, Safety, etc...) -> data types -> operations
Classify by target -> are they tracking you or the environment?
Classify by type -> physical data (pressure, temperature etc...) vs readily analyzable data (video, voice etc...)



In terms of physics, what kind of data can IoT devices collect:

Sound
- Speech detection
- Music

Video
- Security systems
- Doorbells
- Traffic analysis

Images
- Medical
- Scientific
- Safety and Security
- Traffic analysis

Light Sensors
- Sleep tracking

Ultra-Sound
- Underwater search (fishing)

Motion Sensing
- Security systems

Vibration
- Heartbeat
- Seismic sensors

Temperature
- Human
- Outside
- Safety systems

Location
- Tracking - very popular, especially for industrial IoT devices
- Reccomendation systems

Tilt Detection
- Quality control
- Safety

Pressure (by extention: Altitude, Depth, Flow, Leak)
- Safety
- Industrial - cargo tracking

Electrical
- Current
- Power - very popular for energy savings - Power hungry home equipment
- Medical (ECG)

Electronic
- RFID

Communication
- Antennas
- Frequencies

Chemical
- Safety and security
- Air quality monitoring
- CO2 detection
- Dangerous chemical detection - Industrial IoT devices


Most data is collected over time for tracking/analysis purposes.

How long is the cycle turnaround for data?

Seconds? Hours? Days? Weeks?

The longer the turnaround, the more opportunity for architectural injections.

Any combination of the above types of data can and are collected.


DATA patterns could dictate the computational requirements.

Potential idea:

Data center (dedicated or extension of current ones) that would offer data analytics for IoT devices to keep hardware
utilization busy. How to justify? Current data centers focus complicated compute and IoT devices data might require
large parallelism but simple cores or accelerators.


What kind of data related operations are performed on IOT devices?
How is data stored on IOT devices?

Mobile and systems.

TinyML small devices - course Harward and MIT.
Vijay

What is industry doing with IOT devices?


Anand meeting notes:

At first, targeting hospital, now 5G, IOT devices.

Classify devices by the type of data they collect. Classify data. and go from there.

Video quering - one of the areas where people explore.

Google talks about problems people face with big data.


Current references/Resources:





Existing hardware targeting IOT:

GAP8 (https://groupgets.com/campaigns/576-gapuino-combo-kit)


IDEAS:

Could argue that data from 5G will overwhelm the datacenter compute and so the new accelerators will be needed for IoT
data. Why can't usual ones be used? General purpose accelerators will do the job just fine.


Need to argue that datacenters are too cumbersome and are increasing the collection-analysis-reporting cycle latency.
Much compute can be done locally.

Analysis on IoT devices? What kind of data can be analyzed on IoT device? What data can be analyzed at the device? at
user-machine level? at the datacenter? Analyze closer to the consumer? Hierarchical approach to analysis?

Different data analyzed in different places? Use client machine to analyze the data in the background?

Medium level analysis nodes can benefit from low power accelerators, which eleminate the need to send the data to the
cloud?

Classify IoT devices by application and compute requirements for data analysis, for example: municipality analyzing
traffic from IoT devices would be a medium size node, where a medium size custom built accelerator can be placed;
Home where there are a lot of simpler devices with small power consumption and with data with lower computational
requirements can benefit from placing a lot of compute on the personal computer or even a phone.


Gennady Meeting September 30 2020:

take main sources of data and how much compute would be needed to handle it.

estimate how much you can process.

How fast to run a simple query on that kind of data.

We are coming to territory that is infeasinble

power is there, place compute on the IoT devices.

How massive is the amount of data coming in and how much compute is needed to handle it?

if putting sensors near 5G why not put it near sensors as well.

Figure out magnitude of categories and estimate hwo much data they can generate in an minute/hour?

Frequency of how often collected. Make a range for each category.

look at the manuals of the devices and with what frequencies.

pick devices that generate data first.


Microsoft project with farms where they could not send live videos.

categorize by compute complexity and types of data generated.

















































