What is the problem?

Increase in IoT devices makes VERY large amounts of data available for analytics. Large hardware infrastructures are
required to process the ever increasing amount of data made available by those IoT devices. Currently there has not been
a comprehensive study of architectures customized for data analytics from IoT devices. We propose such a study which
would facilitate the development of such architectures through classification and analysis of computational
requirements of data analytics workloads. We argue that the amount of data is overwhelmingly large and that delivering
all that data to the datacenter and processing it all there and then delivering the results back to consumer is no
longer a scalable model. We propose to offload some

Why is it hard?

Currently the data is analyzed separetely by each vendor offering IoT devices and services. Because of that, it is hard
to identify common computational patterns present in data analytics from IoT devices. In addition IoT devices collect a
very wide range of data and have a wide range of computational requirements. IoT devices collect vast amount of
different data. Even a single device collects many different types of data in different formats, whose analysis has
different computational requirements.

How is it solved today?
Today to our best knowledge there has not been such a study of IoT devices and each vendor creates an infrastructure
(including sensors, communication infrastructure, data centers, analytics software, and user-interaction applications)
separately and for their own system. Currently there is a wide range of architectures being proposed in academia that
are targeting data analysis. However, there is little literature targeting IoT devices and their specific computational
requirements.

What is the new technical idea?
The idea is to use the computational requirements of analytics software for IoT devices to extract architectural
insights and facilitate the development of novel accelerators for analytics on IoT devices.

Why can we succeed now?
The lack of research in this area has not been due to technical constraints but rather due to the fact that
proliferation of IoT devices has not reached current levels. Now, due to increase in proliferation of IoT devices,
research into this design space has become more relevant. The impact of this research now, as development of IoT devices
is reaching maturity, is more profound.

What is the impact if successful?
Our research will facilitate the development of novel architectures, which would allow a continued development and
proliferation of IoT devices. This has potential to reduce the price and improve performance of data analytics from IoT
devices.


Brief Timelnine:

