What is the problem?

Increase in IoT devices makes VERY large amounts of data available for analytics. Large hardware infrastructures are
required to process the ever increasing amount of data made available by those IoT devices. Currently there has not been
a comprehensive study of architectures customized for data analytics from IoT devices. We propose such a study which
would facilitate the development of such architectures through classification and analysis of computational
requirements of data analytics workloads originating from IoT devices.

We argue that the amount of data is overwhelmingly large and that delivering all that data to the datacenter and
processing it all there and then delivering the results back to consumer is no longer a scalable model. We propose to
offload some of the compute from the datacenter to local devices - be it personal computer or dedicated accelerator
integrated with IoT device at the edge.

The amount of data that IoT devices generate can overwhelm not only the analysis nodes (datacenters), but also
communication infrastructure - for example, an IoT device deployed in the remote areas is unlikely to have a good
internet connection so uploading massive amounts of data becomes impossible. Storage of the data requires large amounts
of storage, which is also not available to the normally small IoT device. We propose that the device analyzes data
itself and then uploads the results to the datacenter. This has potential to drammatically decrease the upload
bandwidth, thus reducing the stress on the communication infrastructure.


Why is it hard?

IoT devices collect a very wide range of data. Even a single device may collect many different types of data in
different formats, whose analysis has different computational requirements. Thus in order to develop a power efficient
system for data analytics on IoT devices one would require a range of accelerators optimized for different data patterns
and compute requirements that originate from data collected by a wide range of existing and future IoT devices.
    The problem is that most existing accelerators (GPU, TPU) are designed to help with computation of massively
parallel workloads under limitless power supply in datacenters and are thus power-hungry (modern NVIDIA GPUs
require at least 500 PSU Wattage with higher end models approaching 1000 PSU Wattage). This prohibits their use in IoT
devices, which are normally small and are operating under strict power constraints (as they are usually supplied by a
battery).


How is it solved today?

Today to our best knowledge there has not been such a study of IoT devices. Each vendor develops or purchases various
parts of the full infrastructure which consists of sensors, commmunication devices, data centers, analytics software,
and user-interaction applications) separately and for their own products. Currently there is a wide range
of architectures being proposed in academia that are targeting data analysis. However, there is to our best knowledge no
literature targeting IoT devices and their specific computational requirements.


What is the new technical idea?

The idea is to use the computational requirements of analytics software for IoT devices to extract architectural
insights and facilitate the development of novel accelerators for analytics on IoT devices.

The accepted IoT architecture model consists of sensors obtaining data, then sending the data through communication
devices to the intermediate nodes of directly to datacenters, where it is analyzed by analytics software. After the
analysis the user-interaction applications report the results to the clients. Why is it done this way? Because it is
convenient and allows for ease of data access.
    We claim that this model is not scalable in view of how much data will be available with wider proliferation of IoT
devices. The number of IoT devices is projected to increase drammatically
(https://www.statista.com/statistics/471264/iot-number-of-connected-devices-worldwide/  this is just one projection -
many others predict similar numbers) and as such, the amount of data these IoT devices will generate will quickly become
overwhelming for both the communication infrastructure and the analysis node (datacenter). We propose a new class of
accelerators that would enable power efficient data anlysis at the IoT device and would be customized to the compute
requirements of the device and the data that this device generates. This will eliminate the need to transfer
large amounts of data to the cloud and thus will present the community with a much more scalable IoT model.


Why can we succeed now?
The lack of research in this area has not been due to technical constraints but rather due to the fact that
proliferation of IoT devices has not reached current levels. Now, due to increase in proliferation of IoT devices,
research into this design space has become more relevant. The impact of this research now, as development of IoT devices
is reaching maturity, is more profound.

What is the impact if successful?
Our research will facilitate the development of novel architectures, which would allow a continued development and
proliferation of IoT devices. This has potential to reduce the price and improve performance of data analytics from IoT
devices.


Brief Timelnine:

- Motivating the problem.
We will compile a list of types of data that is gathered from IoT devices, from which we will
pick several heavy/medium datatypes by size. We will then compile a list of devices that collect that kind of data. We
will estimate how much data is uploaded from these devices simulataneously (by consulting the manuals). This will serve
to demonstrate that the amount of data available from IoT devices is overwhelming and that it will not be possible to
not just analyze it, but to upload and store it without putting enormous stress on communication infrastructure.

- Data patterns analysis.
We will analyze the data and computation patterns of the data types collected by IoT devices and classify the data into
categories by data type size and computational requirements.

- Accelerator classes proposal.
Based on our classification of data and computation patterns, we are looking to propose several classes of accelerators
and devices that will allow to offload the computation of the desired results to the IoT device (or close to it). We are
looking to analyze power and size requirements as well.





































